---
layout: post
title: Xargs
---

It came up at work that I had to find ~700 numerical IDs in a file and delete
every line in which these IDs occur. Doing this by hand would have taken me *forever* and
probably also wouldn't be the best use of my time. I had a hunch that tools like `grep` and
`sed` might be useful for this kind of task so I decided to give it a try and automate it.


This post is just focusing on the `xargs` part of the script I eventually used, so here is 
the (slightly simplified) command in it's entirety first:

```bash
$ cat list_of_ids.txt | xargs -I '{}' sed -i '' 's/{}: true,//g' target_file.txt
```

Let's split this up:
`cat` is a unix command which prints the entire content of a given file. We then use the pipe (`|`)
command to use the stdout of the `cat` command as the stdin of the next command.

Given that we want to invoke the `sed` command for every line of our input file instead of once for
the entire content, we need a command in between `cat` and `sed`.

That's where `xargs` helps us out.

According to its [man page](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/xargs.1.html) it does the following:
> The xargs utility reads space, tab, newline and end-of-file delimited strings from the standard input and executes utility with the strings as arguments.

`utility` in our case being the `sed` command.

We have to be able to use the strings passed from the `xargs` command within the `sed` command. That's why we pass
the `-I` option: It tells the utility command (in this case `sed`) to replace occurrences of `{}`
within the arguments of the utility command with each input line of `xargs`.

Given a `list_of_ids.txt` with:
```
123
444
789
```

Behind the scenes this will result in the following `sed` invocations:
```
$ sed -i '' 's/123: true,//g' target_file.txt
$ sed -i '' 's/444: true,//g' target_file.txt
$ sed -i '' 's/789: true,//g' target_file.txt
```

Which is exactly what we wanted! This script only used a few minutes of my time, it's reusable and let me get back
to my other tasks much more quickly than doing all this by hand.

> N.B. The `sed` command replaced the matched lines with an empty string as it seemed like quite a struggle to remove
> the entire line with `sed`. So I was pragmatic and removed all the leftover empty lines with just one quick command in my editor afterwards.